Today we are going to analyze the case of the Ambrusco. It is a good case to continue reinforcing
the strategy of the blue ocean, especially taking into account that we start from a true
red ocean. Because I think you will be with me Carlos in that the wine industry and also
the wine industry are very different. The C20E is a very competitive industry in which it is
very difficult to differentiate and also very fragmented. If we talk about the wine industry
worldwide, we are talking about hundreds of thousands of wineries in which it is very difficult
to really stand out, differentiate, etc. You just have to go to the winery in a supermarket
and see everything that is there. If you put yourself in the role of the wineries that are selling,
that are the owners of that wine, it is clear that it is very complicated. And the Ambrusco
is a good example of how to think about no customers, how to create innovation in value, etc.
Tell us Carlos a little bit about how this strategic evolution was born.
Well, indeed, the Ambrusco is a good example of how in a saturated industry, as you say,
to do something different by thinking about no-customer segments. Who are the no-customer segments
or the main no-customer segment for a winery? Well, in general, all those people
who do not usually drink wine and do not usually drink wine for many reasons, because they do not know it well,
because they are not able to appreciate it, because they are ashamed of not knowing how to choose a good wine,
whether it is in adequate conditions or not, because they do not like to drink alcoholic beverages in general.
Well, thinking about them, Ambrusco appears with a very different proposal than what currently exists
in the market. If we look at the strategic picture and to summarize it, as a current situation,
we see two value curves, the red one, a reserve wine, a high-end wine and therefore also a high price,
which without a doubt has its market, and then more economic wines, wines in the medium term,
which are not so expensive but which do not make a great difference.
Carlos, what do they really invest in? What are the factors or variables in this sector?
Well, as we are seeing in the image, there is a whole initial investment in producing that wine,
in creating it for many years, either in barrels or in bottles, in creating a brand in the market
that allows me a certain degree of differentiation, some design, sometimes in itself to have a
denomination of origin and for that I have to have my vineyards in a certain area, etc.
Well, all this is true that it configures different value proposals for those who appreciate
wine, but if we think of a segment of customers who usually do not drink wine for the reasons that
I said, we see in the image the value curve, the value proposal of the Ambrusco. If we analyze a
little how it has been playing with the different variables, we see that in price, it has opted,
thinking of a non-drinker of wine for an affordable price, logically, it is difficult to convince
someone who does not drink wine if we offer it a very high price for the bottle. The brand does not seem
very reasonable to invest in it in a segment, I insist that a priori it has no interest in
wine. The years in a barrel I do not even want to tell you, it does not take 30 minutes in a barrel
because we are really heading for a segment that neither appreciates nor sees value.
I understand that this particular factor, that is, the fact that in the processes that
aging is much less, that there is no barrel, has to have a huge impact
on the cost reduction, right? Of course, indeed, part of that reduction
is due to the price and another part without any better profitability. Because, for example,
the design, I am seeing, the design, it is true that it decreases in design, but well,
the design in the end is not such an important cost factor. I understand that where
innovation is really here is in simplifying the processes of the manufacture of wine,
which is basically aging. And the investment in brand too.
And the investment in brand.
In some way it is something that does not impact, that a non-wine drinking client decides with a brand.
Yes, indeed.
Again, the variety of offer too. In Lambrusco we mainly have pink wine with a little needle,
some white and some red, but mainly a very focused variety in pink wine.
What you say about the variety of offer, is a factor that also has a cost repercussion
in all industries, beastly. Companies that are able to go on the market with very few products.
I was talking recently with a watch manufacturer, one of the leading companies worldwide,
and he told me that they have many watches, many, many, many models of watches.
And he told me, for example, that Rolex has been selling the Submariner,
because it has sold millions and millions of that model.
And of course, when you get to have a very low variety of offer,
effectively your returns are much higher.
And in this case, the wineries usually have whites, reds, well, they have very different wines.
Different types.
That's it. And Lambrusco, what you have is, what did you say, there are two, right?
Well, mainly pink, as I said.
If you are able to agglutinate and concentrate your offer in two or three maximum products,
in the end it is infinitely profitable, because there are economies of scale,
that when you fragment your portfolio a lot, it gets much more complicated.
In return, and thinking again for non-wine drinkers,
we find that Lambrusco makes a slightly different use.
It is an easy to drink wine, easy to choose.
In general, with that it is fresh, it is more than enough to be fine.
It is found in supermarkets.
Well, as we see, it is a value proposition that, without being the best wine,
there are people who would even say that it is not even wine,
but it is undoubtedly the best value proposition for the non-wine drinkers.
If we look at it from the point of view of Amaltur and Rize,
what has decreased a lot are the factors of brand, aging,
designation of origin, design and such, and then what they have done is create some, right?
Create factors that the rest of the wineries had never taken into account,
because a winery has never taken into account that its wine is easy to drink or easy to choose.
They compete in other things, right? They compete in the rest of the variables.
Indeed. Basically, what Lambrusco has done is reduce all aspects that generate cost
and increase everything that favors a different use or facilitates the use of the drink.
With a cost, in addition, it generates little impact, because the easy choice or that it is an easy product to drink,
does not generally impact the cost.
You may think that it is a better or worse wine, this is a matter of opinion,
but the important and relevant thing is that more than 40 million bottles are sold a year,
and this is exactly what it is about.
Making a wine that is the best wine for the segment we are heading,
let's remember the non-drinkers, and that also generates a business of the volume we have increased.
Indeed, of course, if we ask people in the wine industry,
I'm sure many fans will tell us what you have told us,
that it is a very bad wine, but it is not that it is a bad wine or a good wine,
it is that Lambrusco is a wine, look at what Carlos was telling us,
that it is with a value proposal designed for non-drinkers of wine.
Indeed, and for this segment, it is possibly better than any other wine that we could find in the market,
no matter how expensive it is.
Indeed, and it is also very brilliant to address non-drinkers of wine,
because the rest of the wineries, which are hundreds of thousands of wineries in the world,
are competing for wine drinkers.
So if you decide to address those who are not drinkers,
and on top of that you manage to capture them because your proposal fits them,
well, that's when you've created a blue ocean,
and when you manage to sell 40 million bottles, which is a barbarity.
Indeed.